Greets to the committee from the chairdwarf of The Committee on Dwarven Affairs!

I hope this parchment finds you well. We will be exchanging this document to convey important information to whoever happens to be the Fort Supervisor. Please do read and amend this document as you see fit.

~~~ Year 59 ~~~

	1st of Granite:
It is with a heavy heart that we mourn the defeat of our kingdom to the goblins who call themselves the Hoary Scorpion. Only 59 years since its founding, our capital, Scalybridged has been conquered, and a slimy goblin by the name of Em Blottick now sits on OUR throne.

On behalf of our queen in exile, Ral "Diedglaze" Rashfikod, I have taken it upon myself to form The Committee on Dwarven Affairs to organize the construction of a fortress from which we can organize the liberation of our kingdom. I am confident that where one dwarf might fail, a committee will always succeed!

Signed,
- Chairdwarf Chris McFancypants

	15th of Granite:
We arrived at the site of our new fortress across the Waters of Strife in the Crazy Prairies. Sure, this sea-side savannah might be hot and dry, but think of the wonderful view of the ocean when the sun sets!
- Chris McFancypants

	16th of Limestone
A trade caravan has arrived from the Mountain Home! Kumil Gatizkubuk is our trade liason
-Chris McFancypants

	21st of Limestone
More refugees from the Mountain Home. Just in time to help with the first aquifer drop!
-Chris McFancypants

	5th of Sandstone
We knocked out the supports for the first ring of the aquifer penetration project and... discovered that there is still a bit of dirt stopping the ring from falling.
-Chris McFancypants

	8th of Sandstone
And down it goes!!! Though I'll admit that the drop caught os by surprise. We were in the process of removing another bit of dirt that we thought wsa also in the way when the ring gave way. Poor Datan Sanusid and Chief Medical Dwarf Cerol Olinzokun fell in with the ring. Cerol survived. Datan drowned.

Oh look! My shift is up. I'll leave it to the next Fort Supervisor to rescue our Chief Medial Dwarf and recover Datan's body for burial. Good luck, my friend!
-Chris McFancypants

	Somethingth of Sandstone
Ah! The Insane Dwarf Possie (or as me collegues like to call it, the fancy Committee on Dwarven Affairs) continues its attempt to pierce The Aquifer of Drowning. We forgot that material merges on the atomic scale to match the layer it was dropped into, and our drop failed. Now we pump. And pump. It won't be easy.

We've trained and honed our survival skills for years to get to this point (Every one of us is a trained dancer, none can challenge that!) Perhaps bringing a few farmers or miners would have been mindful though. Or some seeds. We appear to have not brought any seeds.
-Urist

	2nd of Opal
It looks like one of the unwashed cretins got their filthy, grubby hands on the committee's communication scroll! Unwashed, I say! I'm going to teach those miserable little minions a lesson... in hygeine.

I demand that a wooden tower be erected, whose sole purpose is the manufacture of soap! Urist, make it so!
-McFancypants

	12th of Opal
The ghost of Datan haunts us. Literally. That moron is wailing about not having his body properly buried in the earth. Shut-up, Datan! Can't you see we're working on digging a channel to recover your body? I promise we'll properly respect your body... after we finish the soap tower, you greasy-palmed stinker!
-McFancypants

	11th of Obsidian
The soap tower is complete! However, I will not be able to extract oil from the local nuts until I have stone to make a screw press. Now to do something about that darn ghost.
-McFancyPants


~~~ Year 60 ~~~

	1st of Granite
Curse the world! We were still celebrating the arrival of the new year when a slugman necromancer showed up with a squad of zombies. I ordered everyone (save myself) to attack the invaders. Blood for Armok!

We defeated the walking dead, and got a nice bit of loot for our efforts, but lost a handful of dwarves in the process. Now might be a good time to make a hospital. The coffin store room is in a perfect location!
-McFancypants

    19 of Slate
Mr. Fancypants and his war on the undead is eating away at the people! Half of our Insane Dwarf Possie members were taken out and for what! For his pride!

Either way work has begone on the blood-clay walls of Armok. Under the gise of the new migrants (put to work on the wall) we've secretly installed a Possie member as a core member of the dwarven fort: the BOOKKEEPER.

(He's also in charge of dolling out orders to workshops, for now. j=>m ! Use it chris!)

    Something of Slate?
DANG LEEMERS! Where's the crossbows? AAAH A LEEMER RUN!!

(Different handwriting) Don't know what the comotion is upstairs, but we've hit stone! STRIKE THE EARTH!

	20th of Malachite
Why didn't anyone tell me that Tosid Ginetkogan was possessed by a strange mood?! I probably could have arranged for her to to have the resources to create her masterpiece. Instead someone just wrote "BTW Tosid went berserk" in the dust on my desk. All I can do now is hope that she turn her wrath on the Gray Langurs instead of on her former friends.
-McFancypants

	24th of Malachite
Alas, we had to put Tosid down. I had to martial 4 of our militia to finish the job, but at least they mopped up the langurs while they were at it.
-McFancypants

	26th of Malachite
Ah-ha! fresh recruits- I mean refugees to replace our losses!
-McFancypants

	13th of Gelena
Today I discovered that we don't have a mason's workshop. I had been waiting for the masons to make a quern for the soap tower for 3 months not knowing they could not do so. I'd apologize for reprimending the masons, but I feel that they deserved it anyway.
-McFancypants

	8th of Limestone
Using the latest in wooden bridge technology, we have developed the Dwarven Atom Smasher! Now we can destroy our garbage at the atomic level, turning hazardous waste into harmless gamma radiation!

Also, the soap tower is now complete.
-McFancypants

	17th of Limestone
The annual caravan has arrived! Oh happy days!
-McFancypants

    17 of Timber
While the walls go up around the fortress, the stallwart members of the Insane Dwarf Possie continue to dig downward. Once the caverns are found, the central stairway will be cut short and the existing passage turned into a drainage well to drop into a sewer network. The dwarves of the I.D.P. have grown used to the finer things in life. They require the finest sewer network to live within! So a sewege network must be built.
-Anonymous member of the Insane Dwarf Possie

	19th of Timber
I don't know who the last fort supervisor was, but apparently he or she has an obsession with food! We literally have more food and drink than we have barrels to store it in and I look at Manager Rith's docket only to discover that another whole year's worth of food and drink has been added to the queue!

I'm cancelling that nonesense (and suspending wall construction) so that someone can finally make me some elfin' soap!
-McFancypants


~~~ Year 61 ~~~

    12th Hematite
Mr Fancypants was right. The time for obsession of food is over. It's time to obsess about DINING ROOMS. The new dining room has been carved, it's fantastic. Overhead stockpiles lined with empty barrels of food and drink! Grand tables where dwarves sit admiring the fine establishment and wondering why we don't have food.

A massive migrant wave arrived and swelled our numbers, all put to work immediatly on the sewers of course. Perhaps at some point we should build them a true, IDP barracks?

Also someone keeps complaining about soap. I keep telling them that nothing is cleaner than a good sewer system.

I'll leave this shortcut guide for navigating to the constructions and fortress levels.
    <F1> => Toplevel
    <F5> => Central fortress
    <F4> => The Grand Sewers

	15th of Hematite
Humans! A caravan of the tall folk has arrived to trade their wares. Our reputation is growing!
-McFancypants

    Something of something
The liason and another band of migrants. I've temporarily suspended the new bedroom construction and left some recomendations for closer positioning, and also a shortcut from the old bedrooms to the dining hall that could work and make them more accessible.

	7th of Moonstone
Armok's beard! A hideous monster has arrived from the north-west! We must- Oh look, my shift is up. Bye!
-McFancypants "on break"

    7th of Moonstone
McFancypants sure was whisteling on his way out. I wonder what's up?

    8th of Moonstone
The wherekin is dead. Those poor afflicted have been sealed in their own tomb to die.
Fort effeciency is at an all time low, everyone in the fort drags stone slowly without tools to verying dump zones that can't be found.

	9th of Opal
Good work, IDP! With the threat contained and the infected quarenteened, we can prepare to move on the next phase of our fortress: World Domination!

We'll probably want to train a military first, though.
-McFancypants

	16th of Opal
Alright, who made the stink? Who did it? Dammit! something died and rotted away in the main hall. There's miasma everywhere!

Turns out someone moved the "Dump" sign to the main hall and everyone dutifully piled all the corpses in the whole fortress there.

Instead of moving the sign, I'm just going to put an atom smasher there.
-McFancypants

	1st of Granite
Goden Shemathel has been taken by a strange mood and claimed the crafts workshop. He seems to have found everything he needed and is now working furiously on... somthing...
-McFancypants

	5th of Granite
Goden has finished his masterpiece! The Shin Buket,a water buffalo bone greave! Actually, it's kinda gross. He can keep it.
-McFancypants

	13th of Granite
Elves! There are elves in our trade depot! Well, we'd best give them something and hope they go away.
-McFancypants

	1st of Slate
Migrants! Excellent! I need fresh recruits for our new military!
-McFancypants


~~~ Year 62 ~~~

	26th of Felsite
I asked the bookkeeper to tally our drink reserves, and he reported that we are down to a single tankard of wine. Naturally, I finished my tankard and ordered more to be produced!
-McFancypants

	1st of Hematite
Another slugman necromancer with goblin zombies! We'll bury them like we did the others. Attack- Oh look, my shift is up! How convenient
-McFancypants
